# Contribution Policy

The "`contribution-policy`" section offers documentation outlining the project's contribution rules, requirements, and policies. It serves as a resource for the community, helping them understand how to contribute to the project. Specifically, this section clarifies whether pull requests and automated pull requests are permitted. This section is **required**.

```yaml
contribution-policy:
  accepts-pull-requests: true
  accepts-automated-pull-requests: true
  automated-tools-list:
  - automated-tool: example/security-research
    action: denied
    path:
    - main/foo/bar
    - main/examples
    comment: |
      foo bar
  contributing-policy: https://example.com/development-policy.html
  code-of-conduct: https://example.com/code-of-conduct.html
```

- `accepts-pull-requests` (Required)
  - **Description:** Define if the maintainers accept pull-requests or not from external contributors.
  - **Type:** Boolean.
- `accepts-automated-pull-requests` (Required)
  - **Description:** Define if the maintainers accept pull-requests generated by bots or automated tools.
  - **Type:** Boolean.
- `automated-tools-list`
  - **Description:** List of allowed and denied automated tools and bots. This property can integrate the value `accepts-automated-pull-requests`, according to an automated tool is allowed or denied.
  - **Type:** Array.
  - `automated-tool` (Required)
    - **Description:** The name of the automated tool or bot.
    - **Type:** String.
  - `action` (Required)
    - **Description:** Define if automated actions from a specific tool are allowed or denied.
    - **Type:** String. The version must match one of the values defined in the field `enum` of the schema.
  - `path`
    - **Description:** Provide paths or sub-paths where the automated actions are allowed or denied.
    - **Type:** Array. Elements of the array are strings.
  - `comment`
    - **Description:** Provide additional context or comments.
    - **Type:** String. At most 560 characters.
- `contributing-policy`
  - **Description:** URI to the project contributing policy.
  - **Type:** String. The provided URL must meet the IRI standard (RFC 3987) and begin with `https://`.
- `code-of-conduct`
  - **Description:** URI to the project code of conduct.
  - **Type:** String. The provided URL must meet the IRI standard (RFC 3987) and begin with `https://`.
  